Become a Lesson Developer Trainer blog (#538)
carpentries/carpentries.org: content/posts/2025/08/become-a-lesson-developer-trainer.md

teaser: "Join a growing group of community members teaching Collaborative Lesson Development Training."  
title: "Become a Lesson Developer Trainer"  
date: 2025-08-28  
time: "09:00:00"  
tags: ["Collaborative Lesson Development Training", "Curriculum"]  
---

Do you have experience in lesson/curriculum development? Want to share that expertise with others in The Carpentries community? Interested in helping to build the Carpentries Incubator community? If so, **[apply to join the upcoming round of Lesson Developer Trainer Training](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc4v3qx7fj5t6tobCiEMGUp9uz3-9Fm5UgbToeVPInlOHuR_w/viewform)**!

## What do Lesson Developer Trainers do?

Certified Lesson Developer Trainers teach The Carpentries [Collaborative Lesson Development Training](https://carpentries.org/lesson-development/) to community members who want to learn how to design and develop open source lessons in collaboration with others. They lead training events and join community meetings with other Lesson Developer Trainers to discuss topics relevant to the training and lesson development in general.

![CLDT hexagonal sticker](/blog/2025/08/CLDT-hex-sticker.png)

> Active Lesson Developer Trainers are expected to teach one to two Collaborative Lesson Development Training events (four x four hours) each year, host at least two one hour discussion sessions each year, and join monthly community calls with other Trainers. (Total time commitment approximately 30 - 50 hours per year.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active Lesson Developer Trainers are expected to teach one to two Collaborative Lesson Development Training events each year (16 hours total per training event), host at least two one-hour discussion sessions each year, and join monthly community calls with other Trainers. (Total time commitment approximately 30 - 50 hours per year.)

```
